---
title: 6.824 Lab 3B - Key/value service with Log Compaction
date: 2019-09-23 20:06:31
tags: [6.824]
categories: [Project]
---
This blog is my notes for [MIT 6.824 Lab 3, Part B: Key/value service with log compaction](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.824/labs/lab-kvraft.html).

<!-- more -->

## Design Overview

The design of Lab 3A can be found here: [6.824 Lab 3A - Key/value service without log compaction](https://blog-pika.github.io/2019/09/05/CourseProject/6-824-lab-3a/#more).

In Lab 3B, every KV-service + Raft-Service Pair should maintain their local snapshot independently. The KV-service of the follower decides whether its Raft-service need to do a snapshot, rather than the leader. The only scenario that the leader participate in follower's snapshot is when leader is lagging behind and leader need to send snapshot so that follower can catch up.

The normal workflow between a KV-service + Raft-Service Pair is as below:

1. Raft applies Log that has been safely committed
2. KV-Server applied Log (same as Lab 3A). After applying Logs, it checks if `Raft.GetStateSize() > KV-Server.maxStateSize`, if yes, call `kv.rf.TrimRaftState(snapshot, lastIncludedIndex)`
3. Raft executes `rf.TrimRaftState(snapshot, lastIncludedIndex)`, to truncate logs, persist logs + snapshot

In this Lab, the log is synchronized submitted to Raft Leader, that is, when KV-Service is applying `log[n]`, all the previous logs from `[0]~[n-1]` have already been applied. Therefore, when we are applying `log[n]`, we can safely truncate `log[0]~log[n-1]`.

So what does a snapshot struct contain?

* Db: the current Key-Value state
* last Included Raft Log Index: the last Log that is included in the snapshot.
* last applied operations for every client, when the KV-Server is reset by snapshot, it should know which operations have already been executed.

For the implementation of `InstallSnapshot` related RPC, please refer to the steps in the paper.

## Implementation Tips

Here are several pitfalls when implementing Lab 3B:

* Raft Log will be truncated, and after that `Log Index != Log position in array`. Therefore, the `Log` struct should have a `Index` filed. And the `Index` should be converted to `offset in Log array` when dealing with Log array.
* In Raft paper, the `lastIncludedLog` of the snapshot should also be truncated in the Raft Logs. I keep this log when doing snapshot, so that I don't need to handle corner case for empty Logs. In this case,  the kept `lastIncludedLog` is similar to the dummy `Log[0]` in Lab2B
* When updating the lastAppliedOperation, use `kv.lastApplieds[command.ClientId] = command.OpSequence` rather than `kv.lastApplieds[command.ClientId] += 1`, because `command.OpSequence` may not be continuous due to lossy network
* A snapshot should remember last executed command index of every client. Therefore, after a KV-Server is reset by snapshot, it knows if it should reject a client command or not.
* `InstallSnapshot` should check if the snapshot is stale or not.
* The filed name should be capitalized if you want to encode to /decode from []byte 

## FAQ

Here are my thoughts when implementing Lab 3B:

> Q: How can KV-server send snapshot contents to Raft?

A: KV-Server has a Raft instance.

> Q: How can Raft send snapshot contents to KV-server, since Raft does not have an instance of KV-Server?

A: When Raft finishes `InstallSnapshot` and need to reset state machine, it can simply send a `ApplyMsg` containing snapshot contents to `applyChan`.

> Q: Who should decides when to do a snapshot, KV-Server or Raft?

A: KV-server, which can lead to simpler code.

If Raft is responsible for the detecting, then the workflow is like that:

 1. Raft find size > maxStateSize and reports to KV-server
 2. KV-server receives this message and sends snapshot to Raft
 3. Raft does snapshot

If KV-Server is responsible for the detecting, we only need to do step 2 and step 3.

> Q: Where should snapshot be persisted?

A: Raft already has a `Persister`, we should use it to store snapshot like what we did in Lab2B to persist Raft state.

> Q: Should snapshot be part of Raft state?

A: No. If we do operations in Lab 2B, that is, Raft operations other than snapshot, we don't need to touch the persisted snapshot. Also, We do snapshot only once in a while but we need to persist Raft state frequently. Therefore, separating the persister of snapshot and Raft state can have much better performance. However, we do need to persistent Raft state + Raft Snapshot in an atomic action, otherwise we may have inconsistency.

> Q: How should KV-Server replay logs when restarting, if it also has snapshot?

A: The only difference with Lab 3A is that KV-Server should ignore the log that has already been included in snapshot when replaying.

> Q: I am confused at `Think about how your Raft will operate while storing only the tail of the log, and how it will discard old log entries.` How can Raft operates with only partial log?

A: The meaning of this sentence should be: `Raft operates while storing only the tail of the log + snapshot from KV-Server`. Raft itself can never operates with partial log information.
